sometime in the distant past a drab crow
like bird settled in you guineas forests
over the years its descendants were
isolated in separate vowels today there
are many different kinds among them some
of the most spectacular birds in the
world
they're the birds of paradise this tiny
jewel is the king bird of paradise the
smallest of all like the rest he is a
dazzling courtship display
[Music]
the Kings range overlaps with another
bird-of-paradise the magnificent he
creates a special arena to show off his
display a patch of forest floor he
clears of every fallen leaf from twig
you'll use it for several years in both
species the females are drab and brown
only the male's flaunt flamboyant
plumage it's the females who decide who
to mate with and the males will go to
ridiculous lengths to impress them
[Applause]
although they look different these two
species are actually very closely
related close enough to interbreed if a
female picked the wrong mate if you take
away the colors these dances are almost
identical both species use similar
movements a sign of their common
ancestry the male's dazzling and
distinctive plumage helps the female
pick a mate of her own count
[Applause]